commons-digester:2.1 removal (#4395)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2021/06/2020-06-03-digester-removal.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "commons-digester library removal (breaking changes!)"
tags:
- jenkins
- core
- developer
author: batmat

> description: "The commons-digester:2.1 library got removed from Jenkins Core. A few plugins will be broken with the upcoming release."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "The commons-digester:2.1 library has been removed from Jenkins Core. A few plugins will be broken with the upcoming release."
```

---

Keeping up with our goal to clean up some of the technical debt inside Jenkins Core, we are happy to report we were able to remove a long-deprecated library.

link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/5320[Jenkins does not depend anymore] on link:https://search.maven.org/artifact/commons-digester/commons-digester/2.1/jar[commons-digester:2.1], a version that got released in 2010.

> Here is the list of plugins that did _not_ get fixed at the time of writing:

Reviewer: these have fixes but just not publicly available right?
If so should we be clearer on this, something like

```suggestion
Here is the list of plugins that did _not_ have their fix released by a maintainer at the time of writing:
```

> * link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/vs-code-metrics[teamconcert]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/teamconcert[teamconcert]
```

* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/vs-code-metrics[vs-code-metrics]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/BlameSubversion[BlameSubversion]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/javatest-report[javatest-report]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/vss[vss]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/genexus[genexus]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/synergy[synergy]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/config-rotator[config-rotator]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/harvest[harvest]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/cmvc[cmvc]

[NOTE]
====
It is always a good idea to update all your plugins _before_ upgrading Jenkins core.
====

Please reach out on the link:/mailing-lists/[developers’ list] with any questions or suggestions.

> === Resources

Reviewer 3: ?

Author: >  I'm planning to add a bit a more resource links (pointing again to the PR, etc.).

:-)

> ---

Reviewer 3: publish date needs to be updated before merge

Author: :+1: done

link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/5320[Jenkins does not depend anymore] on link:https://search.maven.org/artifact/commons-digester/commons-digester/2.1/jar[commons-digester:2.1], a version that has been released in 2010.

Here is the list of plugins that did _not_ have their fix released at the time of writing.
They will start to break with the weekly on the 7th of June, expected to be the 2.297.

* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/teamconcert[teamconcert]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/vs-code-metrics[vs-code-metrics]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/BlameSubversion[BlameSubversion]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/javatest-report[javatest-report]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/vss[vss]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/synergy[synergy]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/config-rotator[config-rotator]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/harvest[harvest]
* link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/cmvc[cmvc]

[NOTE]
====
It is always a good idea to update all your plugins _before_ upgrading Jenkins core.
====

Please reach out on the link:/mailing-lists/[developers’ list] with any questions or suggestions.

=== Resources

> link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/5320[PR-5320]:: removing `commons-digester:2.1`.

Reviewer 3: a screenshot of the post in the description would be good to include to make sure all this renders correctly

Author: Care to elaborate? I'm confused by this request.

Reviewer 3: normally someone would take a full page screenshot of a post and put it in the description so others don't have to check it out locally.

Author: oh ok, I generally don't do that for simple entries with text, sticking with GH renderer. Looking into this then.
